		===================================
		STORM-FEST CD-ROM, MODEL SUPPLEMENT
		===================================


Production of this CD-ROM set is the result of collaboration among the
Office of Field Project Support of the University Corporation for
Atmospheric Research, the Atmospheric Technology Division (ATD) of the
National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), and the U.S. Weather
Research Program Office. This CD-ROM set contains a selection of model data
sets generated during the STORM-FEST 1992 field project. Lists of IOPs and
the data sets contained on the CD-ROM are shown in tables below. In
addition, ATD's Zeb visual ization software is included on the disks. Zeb
provides comprehen sive graphical integration of the data from the original
observational STORM-FEST CD-ROM set and this model data CD-ROM set. Dis
plays include surface plots, skew-T plots, vertical cross-sections of
sounding data, profiler time-height plots, altitude graphs and time series
plots.


The STORM-FEST Model Data Sets
------------------------------

The NOAA/NWS National Meteorological Center (NMC) models and plans are
outlined by Kalney, et al., in the Proceedings of the Tenth Conference on
Numerical Weather Prediction, Portland, Ore gon, July 18-22, 1994, 143-148,
American Meteorological Society, Boston MA.

The four model data sets on the STORM-FEST disk are comparable for many
purposes, but they differ in detail. The Nested Grid Model (NGM) has been
essentially frozen since 1990 although the Regional Data Assimilation
System (RDAS) was incorporated in 1991. The Aviation (AVN) model has been
evolving slowly since 1980 and is based on the spectral technique whereas
all the other models are grip-point models. The Mesoscale Analysis and
Predic tion System (MAPS) and Eta models have been developed more recently
and both use vertical coordinates that differ from the tradi tional sigma
of the NGM and AVN. The Eta uses the step-mountain approach where surfaces
are nearly flat and horizontal whereas the MAPS uses a hybrid of sigma near
the ground and isentropic sur faces aloft. Scores of verification studies
indicate that generally the AVN becomes more competitive as forecast range
increases; the Eta is almost always better than the NGM and is by far the
best model for quantitative precipitation forecasts; MAPS is best for fore
casts less than 12 hours. For a specific storm and a specific pur pose, any
of the four models may be better than the rest. For this reason, all four
are on the CD-ROM and the user is free (and encouraged) to compare and
select the model that seems best for the user's purposes.

Actually, for the purposes of STORM-FEST studies, the role of the dynamical
model producing the data set may be secondary. Those users interested in
the best description they can find of the structure of the storms will want
to use the model associated with the best data assimilation system for the
scales, levels and variables of con cern to them. In their terminology, NMC
has two intermittent (fore cast-analysis cycle) systems: the NGM-based RDAS
(Regional Data Assimilation System) and the Global Data Assimilation Sys
tem (GDAS) used by the AVN and based on the global spectral model. The NGM
and the Eta model data on CD-ROM both come from models run from initial
conditions based on the RDAS, while the AVN analysis uses a first-guess
from the GDAS. MAPS is pri marily a data assimilation system rather than a
prediction model.  A final note of caution: model data suffered in varying
amounts when transferred to the grid of the data set on the CD-ROM and may
suffer further when converted to the users grid. While great care is taken
to retain information without introducing noise or destroying information,
choices are always required that are not necessarily optimal for any
particular user.


Hardware Requirements
---------------------

The STORM-FEST CD-ROM uses the Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol (RRIP),
which is an extension of the ISO 9660 CD-ROM standard. Most UNIX machines
will be able to access the data files on the CD-ROM using this protocol;
some (such as HPs), will require use of an included script to create a
"shadow" directory to establish correct filenames. Additional software is
required for data access by a PC.

The version of Zeb distributed on the CD-ROM has the following
requirements:

	* One of the following workstations (color highly recommended):

		+ Sun w/SunOS 4.1.3 or greater

		+ Sun w/Solaris 2.0 or greater

		+ HP 9000 series w/HP-UX A.09.01 (may work under other 
		  HP-UX versions, but untested)

		+ Silicon Graphics Indy w/IRIX 5.1.0.1 (may work on other 
		  SGI machines or IRIX versions, but untested)

		+ X11R4 or greater (this criterion is met by Sun OpenWindows 
		  3.0 or greater)

	* a minimum of 16MB of RAM (32MB or more recommended)

	* 32MB minimum swap space (swap space needs to be at least 
	  twice the RAM under SunOS)

	* a CD-ROM player somewhere on the network.


Mounting the CD-ROM Under SunOS or HP-UX
----------------------------------------

Under the SunOS and HP-UX operating systems, CD-ROM disks must be mounted
by the super-user using the mount command: Put the CD into the carrier and
insert into the CD-ROM drive.  Decide where you want to mount the CD on
your system. We suggest /zebcd, but you may put it anywhere (the
instructions below assume that it is on /zebcd). Create the mount
directory:

	# mkdir /zebcd

Mount the CD on your selected directory. Note that the CD-ROM device name
(/dev/...) may be different on your machine.

Under SunOS:

	# mount -t hsfs -o ro /dev/sr0 /zebcd

Under HP-UX:

	# mount /dev/dsk/c201d2s0 /zebcd -t cdfs -o ro


Mounting the CD-ROM Under Solaris or IRIX
-----------------------------------------

The Solaris and IRIX operating systems provide for automatic mounting of
CD-ROM disks once they are inserted into the sys tem's CD-ROM drive. By
default, the disk will be mounted to direc tory /cdrom/cdrom0 under
Solaris, and to directory /CDROM under IRIX.

Later parts of this document assume that the CD-ROM is mounted to directory
/zebcd, so you may wish to create a symbolic link from /zebcd to the actual
mount directory, e.g.,

	# mkdir /zebcd
	# ln -s /zebcd /CDROM

This must be done by super-user.  Solaris Note: Under Solaris, there is a
problem which causes con sole messages of the form

	NOTICE: hs_access: error out on VWRITE 

to occasionally appear when the STORM-FEST CD-ROM is being used. These
messages are innocuous and should be ignored.


Mounting the CD-ROM From a Remote Machine Using NFS
---------------------------------------------------

If your CD-ROM drive is on a different machine than the machine on which
you wish to run the software, you can mount it remotely via NFS. The
following instructions assume that the machine with the drive is called
"server", and the machine on which you want to run zeb is called "client":

Mount the CD on "server" by following the instructions above.  Edit the
file /etc/exports on "server" and add a line that reads simply:

	/zebcd

(or the name of your mount point if other than /zebcd).

Run:
	# exportfs -a

On "client" perform the following:

	# mkdir /zebcd

And

	under SunOS or IRIX:

	   # mount -o ro -t nfs server:/zebcd /zebcd

	under Solaris:

	   # mount -o ro -F nfs server:/zebcd /zebcd

	under HP-UX

	   # mount server:/zebcd /zebcd -f nfs -o ro


Shadow Directories Under HP-UX
------------------------------

On HP machines, the files on the CD-ROM disks will be seen with 8-character
all uppercase filenames; this is a result of the CD file system software
under HP-UX. Because of this, Zeb must be run from a shadow directory that
provides the files via their real names rather than the truncated versions
that come directly from the CD. A script is provided for setting up the
shadow directory: SHADOW.CD;1. The shadow directory needs to be created
only once, and generally will take a few megabytes of space. In the example
below, it is assumed that one of the CDs is mounted on /zebcd. Shadow
directory /zebshadow is created:

	% /zebcd/SHADOW.CD\;1 /zebshadow

Note that the semicolon in the name of the script must be escaped with a
backslash. Once the shadow directory has been created, Zeb related work
should proceed as if the CD were directly mounted to the shadow directory.


Printing Documentation
----------------------

After the CD-ROM is mounted, files under the /zebcd/doc directory can be
sent to a PostScript printer. A few important documents there:

	* installcd.ps: information on installing Zeb onto your local disk 
	  for performance improvement.

	* RunningZeb.ps: extended information for getting started with Zeb.

	* ModelData.ps: description of new utilities that have been 
	  added to Zeb for dealing with model data.

	* ObsAndModel.ps: instructions for using data from both the 
	  original observational data CD-ROM set and this model data 
	  CD-ROM set together.


Running Zeb
-----------

After the CD-ROM is mounted, Zeb can be run directly from the CD-ROM:

	% /zebcd/runzeb

For significantly better performance, Zeb can be installed onto your local
disk:

	% /zebcd/installzeb


Unmounting the CD-ROM
---------------------

under SunOS or HP-UX (as super-user):

	# umount /zebcd

under IRIX (no special privilege necessary):

	% eject /CDROM

under Solaris (no special privilege necessary):

	% eject cdrom

If you get a "device busy" or similar message from the umount or eject
command, it means that some process is still using the CD- ROM. Most
likely, you have a window with its current directory on the CD-ROM. Use the
cd command in that window to move your current directory elsewhere and try
again.


GrADS: Additional Software for Viewing the STORM-FEST Model Data
----------------------------------------------------------------

Another way to analyze and display the model data on this CD-ROM is to
utilize the GrADS (Gridded Analysis and Display System) package, developed
by Brian Doty of the Center for Ocean-Land- Atmosphere Interactions at the
University of Maryland. GrADS is available in binary form for Sun, IBM,
DEC, HP, SGI, and PC com puters. Source code is not available.

NOTE: GrADS is not written or supported by UCAR/NCAR. Send Internet e-mail
to support@grads.iges.org with any questions, prob lems, or suggestions
related to the software itself.

As of this writing, the latest version of GrADS released was 1.4; ver sion
1.5 was nearing completion. Unfortunately, version 1.5 is nec essary to
properly display the data on this CD-ROM, as it is the first version to
support polar stereographic grids in GRIB data.

Since version 1.5 was on the verge of release, it seemed imprudent to place
instructions on this CD-ROM which would soon be obso lete. Therefore, the
Office of Field Project Support has established a directory on their
anonymous FTP server containing information on the current status of GrADS,
along with instructions on acquiring and using GrADS with this CD-ROM.

To get this information, use your FTP program to connect to the computer
"ofps.ucar.edu" (numeric IP address 128.117.90.64). (The details of FTP
will depend on your system; consult your system documentation for further
explanation.) When prompted for a name, type "ftp" (without the quotes) and
press your Return key. The remote computer should respond, "Guest login ok,
send ident as password." Enter your e-mail address at the "Password:"
prompt and press Return. The remote computer should respond, "Guest login
ok, access restrictions apply." You are now ready to list and transfer
files.

Type "cd pub/grads" and press return. You are now in the directory on our
computer containing the GrADS information. Typing "dir" and Return should
produce a display resembling this one:

	total 9
	-rw-r--r-- 1 mark staff   1033 Jul 14 10:59 README.grads
	-rw-r--r-- 1 mark staff    723 Nov  9 1993  avn27.ctl
				.
				.
				.
	-rw-r--r-- 1 mark staff    973 Jul 13 15:47 eta.ctl
	-rw-r--r-- 1 mark staff    710 Jun  1 11:45 ngm.ctl

This is a list of the files in the directory on our computer. (Note that
the sizes and dates of the files will change over time, and that we may add
files to the directory. However, the first file listed above is guaranteed
to be present.) Right now, you should transfer the file called
"README.grads" to your own computer and read it. To do so, type "get
README.grads" and press Return; this transfers the file into the current
directory on your computer. Once the file has transferred successfully,
type "quit" and Return to exit the FTP ses sion. Finally, read the file you
just transferred and follow its instruc tions accordingly.

Questions about obtaining GrADS can be directed to: 

	Mark Bradford (mark@ncar.ucar.edu)
	303-497-8169


Acknowledgments
---------------

We would like to thank all who participated in STORM-FEST and are
especially grateful to the National Meteorological Center and NOAA's
Forecast System Laboratory for providing the model data contained here. The
CD-ROM project was managed by C.  Burghart. The Zeb software and modules
for formatting the data were written by J. Corbet, C. Burghart, G. Granger,
K. Gould, A.  Barrett, and M. Case. Additional data translation programming
was done by M. Bradford. The software on this CD-ROM was reviewed by
C. Mueller, J. Moore, W. Brazille, S. Dembek, and L. Dervillee.  The data
periods included on these disks were selected by C.  Kreitzberg. The
original cover art was designed by J. Locatelli.


Further Information
-------------------

Questions regarding the Zeb software? Contact:

	Rebecca Sobol (sobol@ncar.ucar.edu)
	303-497-8847

Questions regarding the data sets? Contact:

	Steve Williams (sfw@ncar.ucar.edu)
	303-497-8164





		                                     *
		     STORM-FEST '92: Model Data Times 
	+------------------------------------------------------+
	| CD #   IOP   Data Start Time (Z)   Data End Time (Z) |
	+------------------------------------------------------+
	|         3     Feb.  9, 00:00        Feb. 10, 03:00   |
	|   1     4     Feb. 10, 06:00        Feb. 10, 18:00   |
	|         5     Feb. 11, 00:00        Feb. 14, 03:00   |
	|        6-7    Feb. 14, 06:00        Feb. 19, 00:00   |
	+------------------------------------------------------+
	|        10     Feb. 22, 12:00        Feb. 23, 09:00   |
	|        11     Feb. 23, 12:00        Feb. 25, 09:00   |
	|   2    12     Feb. 25, 12:00        Feb. 26, 00:00   |
	|        16     Mar.  3, 12:00        Mar.  5, 00:00   |
	|        17     Mar.  5, 12:00        Mar. 10, 06:00   |
	|        18     Mar. 10, 12:00        Mar. 11, 09:00   |
	|        19     Mar. 11, 12:00        Mar. 12, 00:00   |
	+------------------------------------------------------+

	* Note that models may have data gaps within these periods.
	  Data from times between IOPs are included with the 
	  succeeding IOP





=============================================================================
			AVN (Aviation) Model - old form
=============================================================================

Temporal Resolution
-------------------

	Issue Times: 0Z, 12Z.

	Forecast Times: 0 hr, 6 hr, 12 hr, 18 hr, 24 hr, 30 hr, 36 hr, 42 hr, 
			48 hr, 54 hr, 60 hr, 66 hr, 72 hr.

Spatial Resolution and Coverage
-------------------------------

	Latitude: every 4 degrees from 20 N to 60 N.

	Longitude: every 4 degrees from 130 W to 58 W.

Description
-----------

	This model is NMC's global spectral model with a resolution of 126 
	waves using triangular truncation (or about 110 km) and 18 sigma 
	layers.  It uses the Kuo convection scheme and is run in the so-
	called Aviation slot twice daily out to 72 hours. See Kanamitsu, M., 
	1989: NMC's global spectral model and Global Data Assimilation 
	System. Wea. Forecasting, 4, 335-342. (See also, Kanamitsu, M., 
	et al., 1991: Recent changes implemented into the Global Forecast 
	System at NMC. Wea. Forecasting, 6, 425-435; and Kanamitsu, M., 
	S. Saha, 1994: Mon. Wea. Rev. -in press)






=============================================================================
				Eta Model
=============================================================================

Temporal Resolution
-------------------

	Issue Times: 0Z, 12Z.

	Forecast Times: 0 hr, 12 hr, 18 hr, 24 hr, 30 hr, 36 hr, 42 hr, 48 hr.

Spatial Resolution and Coverage
-------------------------------

	Latitude: every 1 degree from 20 N to 60 N.

	Longitude: every 1 degree from 130 W to 60 W.

Description
-----------

	The Eta model is a regional model with step-terrain coordinates 
	intended as the model of the future at NMC.  During STORM-FEST, 
	it's resolution was 80 km with 16 levels.  It uses state-of-the-art 
	numerics and physics with the Betts-Miller convective parameter
	ization.  It has become operational at NMC in the Early run replac
	ing the venerable LFM. See Black, T. L., 1994: The new NMC 
	mesoscale Eta Model: Description and forecast examples. Wea. 
	Forecasting, 9, 265-278.






=============================================================================
	Mesoscale Analysis and Prediction System (MAPS) Model
=============================================================================

Temporal Resolution
-------------------

	Issue Times: 0Z, 3Z, 6Z, 9Z, 12Z, 15Z, 18Z, 21Z.

	Forecast Times: 0 hr, 3 hr, 6 hr.

Spatial Resolution and Coverage
-------------------------------

	Latitude: every 1 degree from 20 N to 60 N.

	Longitude: every 1 degree from 130 W to 60 W.

Description
-----------

	This model is a regional isentropic model designed to ingest data 
	nearly continuously, with a resolution of 80 km and 18 levels.  If one 
	wants the best analysis at all times in contrast to a forecast this 
	should be the best data set, but it may not be for some storms and 
	for some applications. See Benjamin, S. G., K. A. Brewster, R. 
	Brummer, B. F. Jewett, T. W. Schlatter, T. L. Smith, 1991: An isen
	tropic three-hourly data assimilation system using ACARS aircraft 
	observations, Mon. Wea. Rev., 119, 888-906.






=============================================================================
			Nested Grid Model (NGM)
=============================================================================

Temporal Resolution
-------------------

	Issue Times: 0Z, 12Z.

	Forecast Times: 0 hr, 12 hr, 18 hr, 24 hr, 30 hr, 36 hr, 42 hr, 48 hr.

Spatial Resolution and Coverage
-------------------------------

	Latitude: every 2 degrees from 20 N to 60 N.

	Longitude: every 2 degrees from 130 W to 60 W.

Description
-----------

	The Nested Grid Model (NGM) has been the standard regional 
	model used at NMC for a decade, with a resolution of 80 km and 16 
	sigma layers using a Kuo parameterization scheme for convection. 
	See Hoke, J. E., et al, 1989: The Regional Analysis System of the 
	National Meteorological Center, Wea. Forecasting, 4, 323-334.





















