
This is the directory used for graphics process frame cache files.  Each
running graphics process (whether visible or not) allows a maximum of 30
frames.  Each frame's size depends on the size of the window but is
generally equal to width x height (the visual depth).

For a 600x600 window, that's about 351 KB per frame or 10 MB for a whole
frame cache file.

The files only exist while a graphics process is running.  After the file
is opened it is unlinked, so even though the inode and the disk space are
still in use by the graphics process, the file will not appear in a
directory listing.

The frame cache directory and maximum frames are set in the pd/defaults.pd
file.  The cache directory is relative to the top directory of the project
configuration, from which all graphics processes run.

!
! Where to put the frame cache files and the maximum number of frames
! to store in the cache.
!
	file-path:	./cache
	max-frames:	30
	time-frames:	2

The time-frames parameter is the number of pixmap frames to keep in memory,
while the max-frames parameter is the maximum number of frames the graphics
process will ever cache, both in memory and in the frame cache file.  If
movies require more than the default time-frames they will try to
temporarily increase the in-memory pixmaps frames, but never above
max-frames.  Be aware, though, that if there is not enough shared memory
available for max-frames pixmaps, the movie controller will have problems
if it tries to request max-frames time frames.  (Like possible crashing
problems.)  Using a minimal time-frames of 2 allows quick toggling between
two fields in a graphics process without being a memory hog.

Enable eventlogger debug messages before a graphics process starts, and the
graphics process will log the name and file path of the cache file it
intends to use.  To disable frame cache files altogether, comment out the
file-path parameter.


