Documentation of CVS Tags for this project
------------------------------------------

Project_Juneau: 1.1.1

	The vendor branch onto which Chris copy of the project, from
	/zeb/chris/juneau, was first imported.

Tag_Juneau_Import: 1.1.1.1

	The tag for the initial import, which corresponds to the copy
	in /zeb/chris/juneau as of 25 March 1997.

Tag_Merged_JNU_NWS_970325:

	The point at which the copy of the project on jnu_wind, as of 25
	March 1997, was merged into the trunk.  The project version with
	this tag is almost an exact copy of the version copied from
	jnu_wind, except for a couple changes made in /zeb/chris/juneau
	which looked like they needed to be kept. (I think an example is a
	call to dc_DestroyDC in one of the derivation programs.)

	This is also the point after which Gary started making changes and
	adding the profiler display.

Added icons/sheep_mount_x link to makelinks.  Added ./modules to require
path in gp.init.

Added prof_atd/prof915l platform to ds.config and to LastData.config.
Copied iss and iss-new modules from coare config into juneau/modules.
Created profiler display configuration and added two new windows using
rass-template and wind-template library plot descriptions.  Edited the
window pd's, changing the platforms and a few other parameters.  Saved the
configuration as dconfig/profiler.dc.

Added test in dm.config for 'jadmin' project, which is just a link to
'juneau' project directory.  It chooses the gp init file and iconbar and
other settings according to whether we're running the restricted,
operational configuration or the administration configuration.  It would be
nice, though, if we could leave the iconbar size unspecified in display
configurations so that it can choose a default size.  All we really need
for the icon bar is a location and an orientation (h or v).  The size
should be whatever fits.

The restricted gp.init pre-empts the modules and icons paths with the
respective directories under ./restricted.  So far only the global icon is
overridden, with a copy of the 'tiny' bitmap.  Likewise the admin gp.init
prepends the admin paths, but those don't actually contain anything extra
at the moment.

dm.config loads the IconBar in either ./admin or ./restricted, depending on
the value of the Admin variable.  The correct gp.init argument is picked by
setting the Default and Graphic process prototypes in DisplayConfigs.  Note
that those definitions take precedence over the 'fallback' prototypes in
the .dc files.

Tag_NWS_Test_970327:

	The version used for NWS testing on jnu_term and jnu_wind on the
	morning of 27 Mar 1997.

